
How to write sane Python
------------------------


BASIC HYGIENE

H1. print a copy of PEP8 and burn it unceremoniously
H2. require at least python 3.6.  Previous versions are unusable.
H3. process strings with % or with f-interpolation;  do not use .format
H4. try to ignore the existence of exceptions as much as possible
H5. avoid any kind of boilerplate that helps for 2.7 compatibility


NAMING

N1. local variables are single letters.  No exceptions.
N2. use unicode letters without fear: α, β, γ instead of alpha, beta, gamma
N3. function names are long and descriptive
N4. global variables have long and uppercase names
N5. do not bring new mixed-case symbols into the world
N6. either your file is executable or its name ends in .py, but not both


FORMATTING

F1. indent with 1 tab per indentation level
F2. max 80 characters per line (1 indent counts as 8)
F3. max 25 lines per function
F4. max 8 local variables per scope
F5. strings are always quoted "like this", ...
F6. ... except when they are dictionary keys, which are quoted 'thusly'


COMMENTS

C1. write a single-line comment for each variable explaining its meaning
C2. write a few lines of comment to document each function
C3. docstrings are used only for functions intended to be used in another file
C4. the docstring does not replace the comment associated to the function.  It
    serves a very different purpose: The docstring is to be read by people who
    only want to use your function but do not care about the implementaiton.
    The comment is to be read by the person who implements the function, and
    it often explains how the function relates to the other pieces of the code.
C5. do not put any licensing/copyright boilerplate at the top of the file
    (if it is really necessary, put it at the bottom of the file)



IMPORTING

I1. strive to minimize the number of imports
I2. imports should be as local as possible (e.g., inside a function)
I3. Comparison of importing styles:
    BAD: import package as pk         # your code becomes un-copypasteable
    GOOD: import package              # code is clear (but may be too verbose)
    BEST: from package import fu bar  # useful for short and function-heavy code


USAGE

U1. prefer string interpolation than concatenation
U2. avoid os.path.join, use string processing instead
U3. in numpy, never use .dot, use always @
U4. use matplotlib for plots, but do not EVER use it for displaying an image
U5. tkinter is there, and is useful, and is simple; do not be afraid of it
U6. represent graphs as sparse matrices, not as dictionaries^2
